---
title: "Project 2 - Twitter Clone"
description: "Planning out the next project - Twitter clone"
layout: post
toc: false
comments: true
hide: false
search_exclude: false
categories: [webdev, twitter, project 2]
image: images/twitter.png
---

# Overview
So much like the first project, I'm going into this one with a list of things I'd like to learn. I don't want to expand the scope of the frontend too much just yet since we're completely switching backends. So let's define some goals.

## Project Goals
- Reinforce the basics of Vue.js
- Learn Express.js by recreating the functionality we took for granted in Adonis.js
    - Authentication
    - Routing (with prefixes, params, etc)
    - Middleware
    - Exception handling
    - Database integration
    - Controllers? If that's a thing
    - Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) maybe
    - Body parsing
- Learn firebase by using it for 
    - Auth
    - Hosting 
    - Firestore or Realtime database
    - Functions - Found out this is compatible with express servers....so let's just host that here.

Based on these goals, I felt that building a twitter clone would be appropriate. The frontend design is relatively simple, so we'll definitely reinforce our Vue.js knowledge. The backend should be a simple CRUD style REST API if we don't do live messaging & push notifications, but since we're learning how to do this all in express from scratch it'll be challenging in the right areas.

# Closing
Unlikely the last monolithic post, this project will be broken down into smaller updates as the project progresses. I'm thinking of aiming for 1 project every 1-2 weeks. We'll see how well we can actually keep to that.

Thanks for reading. 